Hi, I'm Aaron Parecki, and I'll be your instructor for this course,
I want to take a minute to introduce myself and share a little bit
about why I created this course and give you an idea of what this course will cover.

I've been working in the web standard space for quite some time now,
most recently at the IETF in the OAuth Working Group.
That's where the OAuth specs are actually developed and written.

I also maintain the website OAuth.net, which is a great starting point to find
links to blog posts and tutorials and videos.

By the way, that website is open source. So if you ever come across resources you'd like to
add there, please do.

There's a link at the bottom of every page to edit. So this is the spec.

This is the OAuth2.0 Authorization framework. It's 84 pages long.

And if you're ever tried to read this, I apologize, because specs are't really to
be tutorials. This is really more of a reference, more like a legal contract.

Every word in the spec is very carefully chosen and often uses terms are defined in other specs

And the worst part about OAuth is that it's not even just one spec.

It's actually a collection of dozens of specs and extensions, some of which aren't even made by the same groups

And I realized that that can often feel like you're lost in a maze trying to understand this stuff.

So my goal with this course is to help you wade through these specs and help give you a path to getting
out of the maze that is OAuth and OpenID Connect.

This is the course I wish had existed when I was first starting OAuth.

This is not going to be just a quick how to get up and running.

I really want to make sure that you have an understanding of the fundamental security concepts behind
OAuth so that you know how to apply them to your own work.

This course is broken up into two main sections.

After some initial background on the security concepts and learning the different roles in OAuth,
we focus on OAuth from the perspective of building OAuth applications and accessing APIs. which is
protecting APIs with OAuth. We'll talk about the basics of  building OAuth application in serveral
different environments, starting with server side environments like .NET or Java.

And then we'll talk about the differences when doing OAuth in mobile apps as well as  single page apps in the browser.

We'll also touch on how to use OpenId Connect to learn information about the user.
In the second section we'll focus on OAuth from the point of view of protecting APIs.

We'll cover things like understanding the tradeoffs between different access token lifetimes.

You'll learn how to validate access tokens, how to deal with revoked access tokens or deleted applications,
and how to design scopes for your API.

So with all that said, let's get started.

I will see you in the next lession.
































