TEMPORARY WORKER
CONFIDENTIALITY AND NON-DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING
To: Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
NAME OF TEMPORARY WORKER:
(Hong Kong Identity Card No:
TELEPHONE NUMBER:
ADDRESS:
AGENCY:
IN CONSIDERATION of BOCHK agreeing to enter into an agreement with the Agency, I, the undersigned, whose details are set out above, irrevocably undertake to comply with all of the following terms and conditions:
1. I shall hold all non-public information or materials describing or relating to BOCHK or its affiliates or its customers, or third parties to whom BOCHK has a duty of confidentiality, including materials describing the business affairs, policies or procedures of BOCHK or its customers or such third parties, formulas, strategies, methods, processes, computer materials including but not limited to, source or object code, data files, computer listings, computer programs, and other computer materials (regardless of the medium in which they are stored) or other information (together "Confidential Information") which I come across during the term of my secondment in strict confidence for BOCHK;
2. I shall not disclose, publish or provide any of such Confidential Information to any third party except with the written permission of BOCHK and shall not permit any agent, servant or employee to copy, reproduce, sell, assign, license, market, transfer or otherwise dispose of, give or disclose the Confidential Information to any person or corporation, including any partner or employee of BOCHK who does not have a need to know the Confidential Information. Whether there is a need to know is the entire discretion and decision of BOCHK;
3. I shall not remove from BOCHK's premises (or work places as designated by BOCHK) any Confidential Information (whether in the form of physical documents including but not limited to correspondences, memoranda, reports, notes, books or digital form such as computer tapes, computer disks or any other materials) except with the written permission of BOCHK;
4. I shall take all reasonable steps to minimize the risk of disclosure of the Confidential Information. All reasonable precautions shall be taken to prevent unauthorized persons having access to the Confidential Information and proper and secure storage shall be arranged for any of the Confidential Information in the form of documents, papers and the like;
5. I confirm that I have received a set of the relevant rules, policies and procedures of BOCHK including but not limited to all safety and securities policies and procedures whilst working for BOCHK at BOCHK's premises and, if relevant whilst accessing BOCHK's data or systems off-site and shall fully comply with them including future revisions thereto;
6. Upon termination of the services to be performed by me (or earlier if requested by BOCHK), I shall return to BOCHK all copies of documents, papers or other material relating to BOCHK or obtained or developed in the course of performing services for BOCHK, or containing or derived from Confidential Information and, if relevant, any identification card or other materials required to access BOCHK's systems whether whilst on BOCHK premises or off-site, which are in my possession, together, if requested by BOCHK, with a certificate signed by me, in form and substance satisfactory to BOCHK, to the effect that all such Confidential Information has been returned or destroyed;
7. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, in the event that whether before or after termination hereof I shall be retained by a competitor of BOCHK, I undertake not to disclose to such competitor (whether or not originated by me) nor to make use in any way of any such Confidential Information in performing work or services of any nature for the aforesaid competitor;
8. I shall not, without the prior written consent of BOCHK in each instance: (a) use in advertising, publicity or otherwise the name of BOCHK, or any partner, director, officer or employee of BOCHK nor, any trade name, trade mark, trade device, service mark, symbol or any abbreviation, contraction or simulation thereof owned by BOCHK; or (b) represent, directly or indirectly, that any product or any service provided by me has been approved or endorsed by BOCHK, its partners, directors, officers or employees;
9. I am not an employee of BOCHK for any purpose and I am not entitled to exercise any rights, or seek any benefit, accruing to the regular employees of BOCHK by virtue of the services rendered by me to BOCHK or otherwise;
10. I agree that BOCHK may assign this Undertaking to any entity controlling, controlled by or under common control with, BOCHK or which succeeds to all or substantially all of BOCHK assets and business;
11. I agree that:
a. subject to sub-clause (c) below, nothing in this Undertaking confers or purports to confer on any third party any benefit or any right to enforce any terms thereof pursuant to the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Ordinance (Cap. 623 of the Laws of Hong Kong).
b. Notwithstanding any term of this Undertaking, the consent of any person who is not a party to this Undertaking is not required to rescind or vary this Undertaking at any time.
c. Any director, officer, employee, affiliate or agent of BOCHK may, by virtue of the Third Parties Ordinance, rely on any provision of this Agreement (including without limitation any indemnity, limitation or exclusion of liability) which expressly confers rights or benefits on that person;
12. I acknowledge that: -
a. it is important to safeguard the reputation of BOCHK at all times during the continuance of this Undertaking and shall ensure that the delivery and carrying out of the services by me shall not damage or otherwise cause any negative effect to the reputation of BOCHK (whether caused by my act or omission or any third party); and
b. In the event of any breach of the foregoing, I acknowledge that damages alone may not be sufficient remedy for BOCHK and I undertake, at my own costs, to take such actions or refrain from taking such actions as may be reasonably requested by BOCHK to protect the reputation of BOCHK. In particular and to the extent not restricted by applicable law, I undertake not to make any public announcement or public notice concerning any incident arising out of or in relation to the provision of services to BOCHK which has caused or may cause any negative effect to the reputation of BOCHK without first obtaining consent from BOCHK;
13. The obligations created by this Undertaking shall survive termination of my secondment at BOCHK; and
14. This Undertaking shall be governed by Hong Kong law and I agree to submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Hong Kong courts.
Signature:
Date:
All new temporary workers MUST complete and sign this form at the commencement of secondment.



