/total-portfolio

This stateless endpoint offers comprehensive analysis for a single portfolio and its benchmark, delivering a full suite of
 analytics for portfolio, benchmark, and active measures. It supports requests for individual analytics or a collection thereof.
 The endpoint accepts a range of analytic parameters, which are enabled on a case-by-case basis in consultation with an
 Aladdin Wealth Relationship Manager.


 Available analytics include total portfolio risk, contributors to risk (both position and factor), expected shortfall, HVaR,
 leverage,scenario PNL,sector breakdowns,portfolio characteristics,simulated performance,wealth projections,portfolio
 suitability rules,Portfolio Quality Score, credit risk, ESG metrics, custom analytics , and liquidity.


/total-portfolios

The Total Portfolios Analysis endpoint extends the functionalities of the Total Portfolio Analysis endpoint to analyze multiple
portfoios, with a current limit of up to 5. It provides a comprehensive set of analytics for each portfolio and its benchmark,
returning the results in the same order as the request, This endpoint is ideal for clients needing simultaneous,detailed
analysis across serveral portfolios, ensuring consistency and efficiency in reporting and risk assessment.


/bulk-portfolio-risk

This sateless endpoint is tailored for large-scale operations, specifically designed to process multiple portfolios with similar
holdings efficiently.

It is most commonly utilized for simulating model rebalances across various client accounts. The endpoint is optimized for
performance but coms with xertain limitations that users must consider.

-It exclusively returns the total risk for each portfolio without the option to configure additional analytics.
-Only weights for holdings are accepted as input, market values are not compatible.
-This endpoint will not undergo enhancements or support new inputs or analytics in the future.

Users should be mindful of these constraints to prevent failed API calls, such as segmenting requests into batches if the
number of securities exceeds the endpoint's capacity. This endpoint is ideal for scenarios requiring bulk risk assessment
with a focus on total risk metrics.














